Hi there.
This is De La Rue.
And welcome back.
Let's now do something really exciting.
Let's go ahead and deploy a web application.
So in this lecture, we are going to deploy a web application and this demo has two parts.
In the first part, we will deploy a web application which will have just a static HTML page.
And then in the second part, we will enhance that same web application to also include a servlet,
and we will redeploy it in the Tomcat Web server.
Tomcat is a sublet container, but we are also going to use it as a web server.
So let's do that.
So first thing is, we have to.
Create.
Lets create a new workspace for our eclipse.
So let me create a new folder and let me name it as let's name our web application as books.
Aloha.
If you are not familiar with the term aloha, it's a Hawaiian word for saying hello or goodbye.
So our web application name is Books.
Aloha.
So that's the workspace.
So this is in my C Drive.
So let me go into Eclipse Mars and older version of Eclipse and let me open it.
So let me browse and let me select.
The new folder workspace, which we just created books.
Aloha.
Keep in mind the eclipse that we installed is Java eclipse.
Okay.
So this is the screen that we have.
Let me close these.
Okay.
So this is the screen.
Now here.
In the file, go into new and click on Dynamic Web Project.
Let's just name it as box.
So essentially we will create a page which displays a list of books.
Okay.
Let me click on next.
Next, you can select this one generate web XML deployment descriptor.
I will show you that file later.
So finish.
And there you go.
It has created this package, this project called Books.
Now here under Web content.
Let me right click on that.
Go into new.
Let's create a HTML file.
Okay.
Let's name it as.
My books dot html say next and you can leave this thing.
HTML five.
So this is a template.
So it will create some template code.
Here it is.
So it has some HTML tags.
Now, let me just go ahead.
Let me increase the font size to preferences.
Appearance, color and fonts.
Basic.
So did a 16 year.
This is good.
So let me just copy the file.
I have the file here.
So this is the file.
So earlier we discussed a little bit about the HTML tags.
So here also we have all of these HTML tags and you can follow some good course and you can learn more
about HTML.
But we did go over some of the tags here.
So this is essentially going to display two books.
So here we have the HTML tag and there is the HTML tag here and it also ends with an HTML tag.
Similarly, there is this header tag, header tag ends here and which has this title tag.
And then the body, this is the body of the HTML and the body tag also ends right before the HTML tag.
And within the body we have this table here.
So this is where we are displaying it.
And this div tag is used for displaying the name of the application.
So it will be clear when we when we show it, when we see in the browser.
And here we have the table tag and table tag will have multiple rows.
So there are only two books.
So we are using two rows here.
So this is for the first book here and we'll look at that and this is for the second book.
Now for the first book, I'm showing an image.
And for the image I'm just using some an image from the from the web.
This is an image.
This URL points to the book image.
And then we are.
So this is inside a TD here.
So this is one row and within this row we have two TD tags here.
TD That's the first one and this is the second one.
And in the second one we are displaying the author name and also the rating of that particular book.
Let's say in our website.
So that's the thing.
And then we have a second row here, which is which comes in between the two books.
So it's like just creates an empty space here.
And this is it.
And this is the second book.
And for the author name, we are using this font here.
It's kind of an orange color and the same thing here.
So this is how you would specify it, but HTML is something that you would have to learn separately.
So this is what we have.
Now what we are going to do is let's go back to this books here, the books project, and let me right
click it, right click on that.
And let's say here, export export, var file.
Let's click on that.
For destination.
Let me have something.
One location for that.
Let me call it as books.
Aloha.
So it would create something called as a var file.
And the var file is just a compressed file format and it is used for distributing the web applications.
It would have some fixed format.
The VAR file would have a fixed format, the fixed structure within itself.
And it is used for distributing Java applications, Java EE Web applications, so which would include
subnets and JSP and so on.
So let me click on that.
And let me say.
Override existing file.
Let's go finish.
So let me go back now.
So it is here.
So let's copy that.
Let me go here into Tomcat and Bin.
My Tomcat is already running here, so we are God.
If it is not running, you can start it too.
So let's go into web apps and let me copy it here.
And this var file will get unpacked within ten or 15 seconds and it gets unpacked because the server
is already on.
You see it got unpacked here, but if it if the server is not on, then you have to copy it here.
Go into the bin directory and start the tomcat.
Now this is what we have.
So it created this thing here and it has a specific structure whereby enough and within web enough,
you have this web dot XML.
We will look at that later.
We will explore this structure a little bit later.
So my box is copied here, the HTML file.
So it's all there.
Now, let's go ahead and.
So this is the you are a localhost column at 88, let's say.
Books.
Aloha slash my books dot html.
That's it.
So you can see that.
The both the books here.
So there are two books.
So this is the first book and this is the second book.
So the first book, this is the author name and this is the rating and this is the title of the book
and this is the image.
And for this image, a new history type request would be sent in order to get the image.
So to get the HTML page itself, there is a request being generated.
But then to get these two images, two separate requests would be sent.
So that's the static HTML content.
So that's the first part of the demo.
Now one other thing I want to tell you is so this file is my books dot HTML.
Now if I remove this so it gives you this error.
But if there was a file called indexed HTML over here in this particular location, then that would
show.
So what we can do is let's go ahead and here let's rename this to.
Index.
So now if we go back.
So this this was in the.
In our Web Apps directory in Books Aloha, which is our web application.
So I just renamed that file name from my books to index.
Now if we hit enter, you see that it shows that.
So if you do not specify anything, it will try to search for index dot html.
So that's it.
Now let's head over to Eclipse and let's start the second the second part of the demo.
So for that end within my box here, let me right click on this and let me say new and let me create
a servlet so you can see servlet here and let's call it as the package.
Let's create a package name.
So this is my company name.
And the project is.
Books.
Aloha.
And typically sublets are controllers in the MVC framework.
So let's do that and class name.
Let me have it as my books.
So let's just hit next and just next.
And you have some defaults here.
Let's do that.
So my books is created.
So if you go into Java resources here.
You have sauce and you have this package which we just created and of which we have my books dot Java.
So all of your Java files will be created here, whereas the HTML files are not, theirs will be created
under web content.
Now we can see that there are some compilation errors here.
Now, the thing is, let me comment this.
I'll uncomment it later.
So http servlet.
So this is a servlet and it is extending type servlet.
So which is part of the servlet specification?
It's a class that comes with the servlet package.
Now that servlet library is not visible.
Now we have the Tomcat installed separately.
We can also add the Tomcat to eclipse.
And if we do that, we can start the server from within Eclipse.
Maybe later I will show you that.
It's a very simple thing to do, but if we do that, then Eclipse will will use the the servlet library
which is within the lib folder in the Tomcat.
So I have shown you in the earlier lecture where the lib folder was and it had a jar file for servlet,
so that would be used.
Now in our case we can add that manually to eclipse.
So what we can do is.
Let me right click go into properties.
Into Java build path libraries and external jars.
So let me go ahead and select.
Going to tomcat here into lib folder and let me select.
Servlet API.
So this is the one if you select it and if you apply and if you say, okay, you see that the compiler
error has gone.
So that said.
So here there are few methods.
So this is a constructor and so this is it also added these methods called do get and do post.
So this is some template code and do get and do post are two methods and http servlet later I will talk
about has to be servlet.
So do get corresponds to the get request that we get from the browser.
So you may recall that in the earlier lecture, one of the earlier lectures we said that there is this
HTTP method and which could be get or post or put or delete.
So if it is good.
So that would correspond to this particular method.
And later I will explain everything.
But for now, let's go ahead and.
Fill this meter.
So we are assuming that we are going to get a get request and that that request would be forwarded to
this particular file.
So now what we are doing going to do here is we have earlier we deployed the HTML file as a static page.
Now we will generate all of that content from within this servlet.
So the servlet is going to generate that page in a dynamic way.
So this method do get or even do post has these two parameters.
One is a request which corresponds to the request that we get from the browser, and one is the response,
the response which we are going to generate now.
So the servlet is going to generate the response.
So here first thing is.
Can you expand us?
So we have the response.
So let's say first thing is let's we need to set a header called response dot set content type.
Here it is set content type.
You may recall that there was one header called content type, let's say text slash.
HTML now to generate the response we call a method called get writer here on the response itself, and
it would return an instance of print.
Writer, which is from the write I Will package.
So let's call it as a writer.
It is important control shift or.
And here we'll say Writer Dot.
Trent Allen can select this and we can have our HTML that we had in that static HTML file.
So you will say HTML something like this.
Sorry.
So you can also have an ending tag.
Here.
Now, there is a lot of HTML in that file.
So we can what we can do is I'm going to copy the entire thing here.
So I have it here.
Let me say control A, control C.
Okay.
Let me copy it.
Here.
That's it.
So we have this.
Actually I named it as LB, so let me rename this to out here.
Instead of a writer.
Let's call it us out.
Okay.
That's about it.
So what we have here is the entire.
Text, the HTML text that we have seen in that file.
So let me actually delete this.
This is good.
So we have the all of this.
So you can see that there is the hash tag, everything that we have seen there.
We have we have it here.
So we have a single println statement which is starting from the head tag and we are concatenating all
the different lines in the HTML file.
We are concatenating them and some of the tags have attributes we call these as attributes, and the
attribute values are also in double quotes.
But then here also, when we are appending, when we are concatenating, we are using double codes.
So there would be a clash there.
So that's why we have to use a skip this double discourse using using a backslash.
So all of this code will be available in the resources section, so you can take a look at it closely.
So this is what we have.
And now this is a servlet.
Now we need to tell the container that this is a sublet.
We need to deploy it.
So container needs to note that this is a sublet.
And for that, what we do is one thing that we can do is we have to go into this Web INF directory.
And within the web, enough.
I said that we have this web XML file which has been created.
Let me click on source here.
So it will show the source.
So here we can specify all the different subnets that we have.
So let me.
I already have some code here, so in the interest of time, I'm just going to copy that code.
So this is what we have.
So this is the sublet.
So this this this particular XML code tells the container that we have a servlet now in the browser
when we are going to well after deploying in the browser, we are going to access this particular servlet
using this particular URL so that that's called as a URL pattern.
So there are two elements here.
One of them is called servlet.
Other one is called a servlet mapping.
Now within servlet mapping, we have the URL pattern.
So we are going to in the browser, once it is deployed in the browser, we will look for this particular
resource, which is nothing but a server which would be a servlet.
Now, when the when the Tomcat, when it receives this, it looks it knows that it looks at this particular
file, for instance.
So it knows that the client is looking for this URL for some resource at this URL.
And here it says a servlet name.
So this is like an like a key.
And over here, also within this particular element, we have the same servlet name here.
And this servlet name corresponds to a maps to this particular servlet class, which we have created
earlier, which we have created here.
So it's just the name of the entire path, path to that class.
So this is the entire package name which we created.
So that's what it is.
So the client, the browser does not know anything about this particular resource.
The client only uses this resource.
Maybe it's a link on the on one of the web pages or the user will enter that in the address bar, but
the user is going to just enter the URL.
But that URL, the location corresponds to some servlet here.
So that's it.
And Servlet is does not have a main method, although it is a Java file, it does not have a main method.
So there are some other methods which the container uses to use a servlet.
But let's not worry about that now.
Let's go ahead and recreate the VAR file.
So here it is.
We are.
And destination.
Let's have the same destination once again.
We can overwrite the old one.
Because let me copy that and go back here into Web apps.
Let me let me just delete the old one.
So our server is still on.
It's still.
On.
So let me just delete them and let me copy it here because the server is on, it's going to redeploy
it.
So it's going to unpack and redeploy this.
Or here it got created.
So this is the book's aloha and this was the my books and written by and f we have the web XML which
we also edited.
So everything has got unpacked.
The file got unpacked.
Now if you go into classes under web INF, so you will see the Java classes here within the classes.
So we have our com semantic square books, aloha controllers and this is our servlet.
Now let's go back to the browser.
So we have books.
Aloha.
And we said.
The link.
Here was my books.
It was my books here.
So let's just put my books.
That's it.
So you have the same content and all of this content is coming from our servlet, so that's what it
is.
Now another thing that can be done is here in the My Books dot Java.
So we also have this thing, here it is.
We also have this annotation right about the definition here.
So we can also do this if you do this, if you uncomment it.
I need to import this.
Thing, this particular package.
We do not need to do this, so we do not have to.
So you can just comment it out.
The Web XML.
And if we just have that annotation, the Tomcat server will automatically know that this is a servlet
and it will load it.
It will use the servlet.
So this is much more easier actually.
We don't have to write all of that in XML.
But if you have this and if you also have this, then this gets a precedence.
Just keep that in mind.
For instance, here also we have this thing called my books.
So you can redeploy once again on your site and you can see that it will still work.
But if this was my books and this was my books too, then this is what will be taken as the URL pattern
for the servlet.
I hope that is clear.
Okay.
Now, let me stop it here.
I think the lecture has been long enough.
I actually wanted to explain a little bit about the HTTP servlet, but I think let me just stop it right
there and I can talk about it in the next lecture.
Also, let me just stop the server here.
Inside the bin.
Just click on shut down batch and the server would be stopped.
So that's about it.
Thank you and I hope you enjoyed learning about sublets and thank you and happy coding and all of the
code will be available in the resources section.